welcome to rugged splett
my name is Jared rugged split log
splitters offer high-performance and
heavy-duty commercial features at an
attainable price making them the best
value in a hydraulic block splitter
available anywhere today we're looking
at our 37 ton
tip up block splitter this model
features a 5 inch diameter welded
cylinder a 24 inch stroke and a 2 inch
diameter rod the heavy-duty i-beam is 6
inches by 6 inches by 6 inches to
support legs provide a stable platform
for splitting they both fold and lock in
the up and down positions for safe
towing the cast steel splitting wedge is
designed to split even the toughest
nautious logs the base has a grease
fitting to keep the track lubricated
most components are powder coated for
durability our most popular upgrade is
the log knock off this strip sticky logs
off of the blade and it also protects
your engine it's made with heavy gauged
plate steel and weighs nearly 50 pounds
the knockoff kit also includes these
wings which bolt onto the wedge and
reduce the amount of time it takes to
split firewood we'll see these in action
in just a moment these features are not
available on both splitters there are
also two cradles and a V welded to the
foot to hold the log in place while
splitting the single spool valve
features an auto return detent the lever
will stay in the return position until
the rod is fully retracted then it kicks
off automatically into the neutral
position this leaves you free to load
the next log for safe operation be sure
to keep an eye on the wedge as it's
retracting a 16 gallon per minute
two-stage high low gear pump powers the
hydraulic system it delivers a 14 second
out in back cycle time it draws
hydraulic fluid through a reusable steel
mesh filter
the hydraulic tank holds 8 gallons of 10
weight aw 32 hydraulically this is a
larger capacity that most splitters on
the market having this much oil keeps
the system cool the tank comes with a
vented cap with a built in dipstick
half-inch high pressure hoses connect to
high quality fittings a three-quarter
inch return line allows the system to
flow more freely
the rugged split is powered by a
reliable leap on 270 CC 9 horsepower
overhead valve engine this engine
features easy starting choir operation
and a low oil cutoff switch electric
start is available and we also sell carb
compliant engines for customers in
California leaf on industry group
there's a 1.4 billion US dollar
manufacturer of automobiles motorcycles
as small engines based in China the
original equipment manufacturer OEM
preventive the leading brands of lawn
and garden equipment these engines are
sold under the leaf on brand at big-box
or hardware stores all across the u.s.
they offer the same performance and
durability of engines costing more than
twice as much
a jaw coupler connects the pump to the
engine this cover-up prevents debrief
getting inside the trailer hitch takes a
standard two inch ball and include
safety chains the 12 inch wheels are
suitable for towing up to 40 miles an
hour and include fenders now let's split
some wood remember to use care when
operating hydraulic equipment and wear
protective gear
the rugged split has no problem with
heart or not II would and the knockoff
really helps with this on season wood
now let's bolt on the wings and see how
easy it is to get four logs in one cut
the rugged split is priced right for the
home or commercial user you will not
find a better value anywhere and we
stand behind the rugged split with a
one-year parts warranty and we keep
every part in stock we ship all over the
US from our warehouses in Boston and
Oregon the splitter arrives as a
complete kit in a wood crate it can be
assembled in one afternoon with basic
tools be sure to check out the assembly
video at WWE at split calm for more
information and a shipping quote call us
of 855 6 rugged that's one eight five
five six seven eight four four three
three thank you for watching